So, guys, now next, let us discuss how to write outrated macro to iterate over a linked list.
So in this slide, I have shown you the example which illustrate the outrated macro to iterate over
a linked list.
So the name of the macro is outrate list begin.
Right.
And you can see that this macro accepts the argument.
The first argument is a pointer to the linked list, and the second argument is a pointer which points
to the node of a link list.
So to initialize with this node pointer will be initialized to null before making a call to this iterative
macro.
It will be the responsibility of this iterative macro to set this nought point or two unmowed of a linked
list and at this point or to point to a next node of a link list every time this iterative macro move
to the next iteration.
Now, as I mentioned earlier, that alternative macros are nothing, but they are just a fancy wrapper
over for loop.
Right.
So you can see that implementation of this iterative macro is fairly simple and straightforward.
First of all, I have taken a pointer which points to the head of a linked list.
Right.
And then I simply write a for loop to outrage over the entire linked list.
Now, I expect you here to analyze this for loop and see that this for loop is very obvious and facilitate
us to I tripped over each node of a link list.
So you can see this democracy in action in the file library, designing ignitor democracy patch in this
high, I have defined the implementation of this idea of democracy.
Also, if you apply the tax substitution carefully, you will see that this iterative Macklowe expands
into Umair for loop in the source file to ETrade over a list.
So now I live it as an exercise to you to apply the tax substitution over this iterative macro and see
that in the source file.
What is the equivalent code which you get after the tax substitution has been done?
Now, you already know how to see a seesaws file only after tax substitution has been performed on that
particular source file.
Let me discuss in brief that how tax substitution for iterative mackerels happens.
You can see that the macro that you have defined is the one in the white box.
And the definition of this, the macro is the one in the bigger box below, right?
So in your source file, whenever you write the iterative macro, that is the one in the white box.
Aftertax substitution, this makeable, will be replaced by the following C-code right now, you can
see that the tag substitution of this iterative macro will introduce these open places, right?
So you need to make arrangement in order to balance out these parentheses so that your code combines.
So it is for this reason that you need a complimentary macro which will take care to balance the parentheses.
So you can see that this macro that is outrate list and will be replaced by these two parentheses in
your source file, After-Tax Substitution.
So I try to macros are actually needs to be written in pairs, the biggest macro and the corresponding
and macro will form up here.
Right.
And we write the and the macro because we need to balance out the parentheses, which were introduced
by a big macro.
Also, one aspect that I would like to emphasize on this item macro is that that this idea of macro
provides you a facility to iterate over a linked list in a safe manner.
Now, what does that mean?
That means that this macro will allow you to iterate over a long list.
And while you are processing the current node of a long list, you can actually delete and flee that
particular node on the fly.
So you can see that the highlighted line is responsible to make this iterative macro.
Adelheid, see if MOOP.
So a loop is set to be, Adelheid, safe if you can delete a current node of our data structure while
iterating over the data structure within that loop.
So let us try to understand this with the help of an example, suppose you have a link list in which
you have certain numbers like one, two, three and four.
So assume that it is a linked list.
Right.
And now I ask you one question that you are outraged over this link list and delete all the nodes which
have evil numbers.
So when I tripped over this link list and suppose your current Naude points to the node number two.
So now this iterative macro will allow you to actually delete this particular node and actually free
the memory of this particular node in the next iteration, you will still be able to process the node
number three, the reason being that the pointer to the next node of a linked list is already cast in
advance in another variable.
Right.
So when the body of this Falu finishes its hydration, you can see that in this part of the for loop,
which is the hydration part, we simply copy the next note pointer of a link list, which is naughtily
in this case to the current pointer.
Right.
And then we process this current load within the body of this outrated mackerel.
And then immediately, we again cash the pointer to the next node of a link list and now in this case,
the underscore mode underscore point, there is a variable which will point to the node number four
of a linked list.
So because we already cache the pointer to the next node of a linked list in advance, this iterative
macro will allow us to delete and free the current node, which is being processed in the current iteration
in the loop.
So from now on, always develop a habit of writing, delete, save iterative macros.
So you can see that I have implemented this iterative macro in our daily dot etc file.
Right.
So you can see that this is how we write the code in the header file and we implement the macros.
Now if you want to see how to make use of this iterative macro in the source file so you can see that
I'm an application dot, so it's fine.
And if you remember that in this application dot seesaws file, I wrote a function which will print
the student database write.
So you can see that I have commented out the old guard, that is the traditional way of iterating over
a linked list, representing a student database, and underneath I have used I try to micro instate
in order to iterate over the entire linked list constituting student database.
And then I'm printing each note of a linked list, one by one by calling the function student details.
So you can see that instead of writing this legacy, all the code for iterating over a link list, now
I'm using Iterative Macroom, which we have just discussed in order to iterate over our linked list.
And then process each note of the linked list within the body of this iterative macro.
So you can see that now your coat looks more stupid and it is always good that you are caught, looks
stupid because a stupid coat requires no brain to understand it.
So whenever in your application you need to outrate over any link list, you can simply make use of
this iterative macro positive the pointer to the link list, because the pointer to the node of a linked
list initialized to null, of course, and this iterative macro will take the responsibility to allow
you to iterate and process each node of our linked list that you are iterating on.
So we have discussed our first item to move, which will allow you to iterate over a linked list.
Now, next, let us discuss how to write a letter to macro, which will allow you to iterate over binary
search trees because tree is another data structures, which is very prevalent and most commonly used
data structure to store application data.